Let's go through our files in the order that we
created them starting with the build.
gradle and the pom.
xml file.
I have the XML and Java files on the left and the
Gradle and Kotlin files on the right.
The pom.
xml, you can see here, is a little bit lengthier.
It has more information.
In fact, it's 55 lines long versus the build.
gradle file, which is only 31 lines long.
This isn't necessarily a Kotlin thing as much as it is
a Gradle versus XML configuration.
If we had added all of the Kotlin configuration to
compile that in XML using Maven, it would actually be even longer than that,
54 or 55 lines long, so the build.
gradle file is significantly less.
I'll leave it up to you to decipher whether or not you think it's more readable,
but you can see a lot of the same things.
We have the jar definition, packaging type.
We have the different dependencies that we have inside of here
and the dependencies for our build script,
as well as our overall dependencies for the project.
And they're a little bit reversed in order.
The build section and the pom.
xml is at the bottom where the build section for
the Gradle file is up at the top, and that's just stylistic.
That's how you usually set up a Gradle file versus a Maven POM file.
Let's now switch over to our Application.
java file and compare and contrast the differences there.
These files are almost identical.
In fact, you'll see that we have the same package name,
the same imports, the same annotations.
Very stylistically almost the same.
The only major change is on line 9 where we define our public static void
main method versus the Kotlin fun main args Array method.
Other than that, they're almost identical in signatures and imports in our files.
You can see that we have our Application.
class where we have our Application::class.
java that we are required to pass in to our SpringApplication to run it,
but other than that these file are the same.
One of the big differences is in the greetings.
java and greetings.
kotlin file.
Let's compare those two now.
And right out of the gate here,
you can see all of that boilerplate code that we're used
to seeing with Java and simple POJOs.
We have declared our member variables as private.
We have our constructor defined.
We have our getters and setters,
as well as all of the curly braces and semicolons that
go with it versus our Kotlin file, which is two lines,
the package definition and the declaration of it being a data class,
and so we have our getters and setters generated for us and the
constructor based off of line 3 as well of a Greeting object
with a variable id that's a Long and a variable content that's
a Spring passed into it.
Significant difference and elimination of a lot of that boilerplate code here.
Let's now look at the GreetingsController,
and they're fairly similar, but a few stylistic changes there.
Like the application file, the package and imports are identical.
The use of the private atomic counter is different in that we
don't have to declare that it's private,
what type it is.
We can just assign it to a variable and utilize it.
And then the way that we pass in arguments is a little bit different.
Using the @RequestParam inside the Java file,
we have to either concatenate that string or use a message formatter,
where we can use the variable replacement that's a
nice feature inside of Kotlin.
So I have that $name that I can just utilize from
our request parameter up above.
That's a nice,
little feature that I can use to manipulate strings and pass in through Kotlin.
And as far as that,
these two features are pretty well not enough to differentiate that
Kotlin's easier to use or significantly less in code.
We have our obviously our lot lighter POJOs and then some
of these syntactically niceties that we get with not being
so strict with semicolons.
If I use a semicolon, it will still work inside of our application,
but it doesn't force us to.
I'll let you decide which is easier or more appealing to you.
Like I said,
if you were using Android and using Kotlin on your mobile development,
you wanted to be a full stack developer and keep the language the same,
Kotlin's probably a good idea for you.
If you're just doing Java development and you want to change it up,
it may not be worth the change to you.
It may though. It's truly up to you, and it's a stylistic issue.